Relevant Work (#14)
greenelab/text_mined_hetnet_manuscript: content/02.introduction.md

Set introduction for paper here
Talk about problem, goal, and significance of paper

### Related Work
Relationship extraction is the process of detecting and classifying semantic relationships from a collection of text.

> This process of can be broken down into three categories: (1) use of natural langue processing techniques such as manual crafted rules, dictionary lookups or text patterns to extract relationships from literature, (2) unsupervised machine learning via co-occurence scores or clustering approaches, and (3) supervised or semi-supervised machine learning using annotated datasets for classification of documents or sentences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Approaches can be broken down into three categories: (1) use of natural language processing techniques such as manually crafted rules, the use of text patterns to extract relationships from literature, (2) the use of unsupervised methods via co-occurrence scores or clustering, and (3) supervised or semi-supervised machine learning using annotated datasets for classification of documents or sentences.
```

> We discuss previous work done for each type of edge (relationship) studied in this project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We discuss selected efforts for each type of edge that we include in this project.
```

#### Disease-Gene Associations 

> Regarding rule based approaches, Liu et al. used a dictionary lookup approach to extract multiple edges involving diseases, genes, toxins, etc. from literature [@tag:polysearch]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first set of efforts we discuss are rule and co-occurrence based methods.
Regarding rule based approaches, Liu et al. used a dictionary lookup approach to extract multiple edges involving diseases, genes, toxins, etc. from literature [@tag:polysearch]. 
```

Song et al., created a text mining tool called PKDE4J which uses a dictionary and rule based approaches to extract associations from literature [@tag:pkde4j].
Despite the great performance, these approach takes significant amount of manual effort to use.  
In the context of unsupervised approaches, Pletscher-Frankild et al., used a co-occurence approach to predict disease-gene associations [@tag:diseases].
Each disease and gene pair were ranked based on their mention frequency within in biomedical abstracts.
Junge et al., used an advanced version of the DISEASES approach that combines co-occurence scores with a distant supervision approach to identify disease gene associations [@tag:cocoscore].
Kim et al., used a co-occurence scores to construct a disease-gene network to find associations [@tag:lgscore].

> Zhou et al., combined term weights with co-occurence methods to improve performance on association identification [@tag:dg_text_pubmed].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Zhou et al., combined term weights with co-occurrence methods to improve performance on association identification [@tag:dg_text_pubmed].
```
spell check

Westergaard et al., used a co-occurence approach using full text to detect associations [@tag:full_text_co_abstracts].
Besides co-occurence, Percha et al., used a bi-clustering approach on dependency trees generated from MEDLINE abstracts to detect associations [@tag:global_network].

> These kind of approaches have powerful recall performance, but can suffer precision wise.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These kind of approaches often have excellent recall, but the precision of these approaches can be limited.

```

> With the availability of hand annotated datasets [@tag:befree; @tag:eu_adr; @tag:comagc], there have been a number of supervised machine learning approaches for classifying associations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hand annotated datasets [@tag:befree; @tag:eu_adr; @tag:comagc] can support supervised machine learning approaches for classifying associations.
```

Quan et al., used a maximum entropy classifier to classify sentences that indicate an association [@tag:dg_extract_txt_network].
Bravo et al., used a support vector machine classifier with two different kernels, a dependency kernel and a shallow linguistic kernel, to classify associations [@tag:befree]. 
Xu and Zhang et al., used a support vector machine classifier with local and global context features to classify associations in literature [@tag:dtminer].
Recently Bhasuran et al., created used an ensemble approach that consisted of using multiple support vector machines to identify associations [@tag:ensemble_svm].

> Lee et al., build off of the BERT [@tag:bert] system to build a deep learning classifier for association detection [@tag:biobert].

Reviewer: I thought you were going to say something here about these having better precision - do they? I though the bit about recall was going to come back to the part above. Can you synthesize the literature a bit more? Which things are similar to each other? Which are the most similar to the generative model you are building? Which are the most similar to the discriminative model?

This context is really important for a good related work section and it's missing here (and in the subsections that follow). Can you add it and then I can re-review?

With the success of deep learning there have been numerous amount of deep learning models to tackle this task.
Lim et al., used a recursive neural network to classify compound protein interactions [@tag:recursive_nn].
Peng et al., used an ensemble approach that combines support vector machines with convolutional neural networks and recurrent neural networks [@tag:cbg_ensemble_dl].
Lee et al., used a deep learning classifier that builds off of the BERT system for this task [@tag:biobert].
Corbett et al., used a transfer learning with specialized word embedding vectors approach to classify compound protein interactions [@tag:cbg_transfer_learning].
Liu et al., used a neural attention model to accomplish this classification task [@tag:cbg_neural_attention].
Zhange et al., used a semi-supervised approach that combines the CHEMPROT dataset with full MEDLINE text to perform extraction [@tag:semi_supervised_vae].
Lastly, Percha et al., used a bi-clustering approach on dependency trees generated from MEDLINE abstracts to identify key sentences for compound protein interactions [@tag:global_network].

> #### Gene Gene Interactions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Gene-Gene Interactions
```

Set introduction for paper here
Talk about problem, goal, and significance of paper

### Related Work

Relationship extraction is the process of detecting and classifying semantic relationships from a collection of text.
This process can be broken down into three different categories: (1) the use of natural language processing techniques such as manually crafted rules and identifying key text patterns for relationship extraction, (2) the use of unsupervised methods via co-occurrence scores or clustering, and (3) supervised or semi-supervised machine learning using annotated datasets for classification of documents or sentences.

> In this section, we discuss selected efforts for each type of edge that we included in this project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we discuss selected efforts for each type of edge that we include in this project.
```
I realize that I changed this to past tense before, but I'm just realizing that it's the intro and should be present tense. Sorry! 😆

#### Disease-Gene Associations 

> Substantial effort for Disease-associates-Gene (DaG) extraction comprised of using manually crafted rules and unsupervised methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Efforts to extract disease-associates-Gene (DaG) relationships have often used manually crafted rules or unsupervised methods.
```

> One study used hand crafted rules on generated dependency trees to extract Disease-associates-Gene relationships [@tag:pkde4j].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One study used hand crafted rules based on a sentence's grammatical structure, represented as dependency trees, to extract DaG relationships [@tag:pkde4j].
```
See what you think of this - and commit to using the short form (here DaG) once you define it. Otherwise, don't specify it.

> These rules were based off of a sentence's grammatical structure and labeled any structure match as positive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> We used some of these rules as inspiration for our DaG text pattern label functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some of these rules inspired certain DaG text pattern label functions in our work.
```

> Another study used a co-occurrence approach to score the likelihood of association between disease and gene pairs [@tag:diseases].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another study used co-occurrence frequencies within abstracts and sentences to score the likelihood of association between disease and gene pairs [@tag:diseases].
```

> These scores were calculated using the frequency of disease and gene mentions within abstracts and within sentences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The results of this study was incorporated into Hetionet v1 and used as one of our distant supervision label functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The results of this study were incorporated into Hetionet v1, so this served as one of our distant supervision label functions.
```

> Another approach built off of the previously mentioned approach by using a distant supervision technique with a logistic regression model to improve the frequency calculations [@tag:cocoscore]. 

Reviewer: What approach is this? Confused here.

> We incorporate this work as a baseline comparison for our discriminative model (Results Section: Reconstructing Hetionet).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We compared our results to this to measure how well our overall approach performs relative to other methods.
```

> Besides the mentioned two studies, other work have used pure co-occurrence for extraction [@tag:lgscore; @tag:polysearch; @tag:full_text_co_abstracts] or a combination of scores with other features to mine the DaG relationship [@tag:dg_text_pubmed ].

Reviewer: Aren't there at least three to this point?

Reviewer: Also - what is pure co-occurrence?

Along with co-occurrence, one study used a bi-clustering approach to detect DaG relevant sentences from Pubmed abstracts [@tag:global_network].
This clustering approach used dependency paths to group similar sentences together.
We used the results of this work for our domain heuristic label functions.
The benefit of using the above approaches is inessential need for annotated data.
These methods provide great recall performance in terms of extraction, but can suffer in precision performance.

> Supervised machine learning for DaG has prospered with the creation of hand crafted datasets [@tag:befree; @tag:eu_adr; @tag:comagc; @tag:craft].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hand-crafted high-quality datasets [@tag:befree; @tag:eu_adr; @tag:comagc; @tag:craft] often serve as a gold standard for training, tuning, and testing supervised machine learning methods in this setting.
```

> This datasets served as a gold standard for tuning and testing machine learning models in DaG extraction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Copious amount of effort used support vector machines to detect DaG relationships [@tag:befree; @tag:dtminer; @tag:ensemble_svm].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Support vector machines have been repeatedly used to detect DaG relationships [@tag:befree; @tag:dtminer; @tag:ensemble_svm].
```

> This model performs well in large feature spaces, but perform slowly as the number of data points increases.

Reviewer: What do you mean perform slowly? Make predictions slowly? Train slowly? something else? Can you re-word for clarity?

> Following support vector machines, effort has focuses on using deep learning models for extraction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recently, some studies have used deep neural network models.
```

> One such effort used a pre-trained recurrent neural network for DaG extraction [@tag:biobert].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Oneused a pre-trained recurrent neural network [@tag:biobert], and another used distant supervision [@tag:deep_dive_dag].
```

> Similar to our approach another study used distant supervision for DaG extraction [@tag:deep_dive_dag].

Reviewer: Were there any differences with your work? What are they?

> Similar to our approach another study used distant supervision for DaG extraction [@tag:deep_dive_dag].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Due to the success of these two models, we take a deep learning approach for our discriminative model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to the success of these two models, we evaluate performance when using a deep neural network as our discriminative model.
```

#### Compound Treats Disease

> Effort for Compound-treats-Disease (CtD) extraction focuses on identifying sentences that mention current drug treatments or discovering new uses for existing drugs (drug repurposing).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal of extracting Compound-treats-Disease (CtD) edges is to identify sentences that mention current drug treatments or propose new uses for existing drugs.
```

> One study used an inference model combined with co-occurrence scores to identify sentences regarding drug repurposing predictions [@tag:abc_drugs].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One study combined an inference model from previously established drug-gene and gene-disease relationships to infer novel drug-disease interactions via co-occurrences [@tag:abc_drugs].
```

> This approach consisted of using an inference model on previously established drug-gene and gene-disease relationships to infer novel drug-disease interactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Each identified pair was ranked using a co-occurrence score that was calculated using pair mention frequency on Pubmed abstracts [@tag:abc_drugs].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> A similar study used a similar inference model for CtD extraction [@tag:copub_discovery].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A similar approach has also been applied to CtD extraction [@tag:copub_discovery].
```

> Following co-occurrence one study consisted of using manually curated rules on Pubmed abstracts for CtD extraction [@tag:ctd_medline].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Manually-curated rules have also been applied to PubMed abstracts to address this task [@tag:ctd_medline].
```

> These rules were based on identifying key drug treatment phrases and wording for extraction. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rules were based on identifying key phrases and wordings related to using drugs to treat a disease, and we used these patterns as inspirations for some of our CtD label functions. 
```

> We used these patterns as inspiration for some of our CtD specified label functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Lastly, one study used a  bi-clustering approach to identify sentences relevant to the CtD [@tag:global_network].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Lastly, one study used a  bi-clustering approach to identify sentences relevant to CtD edges [@tag:global_network].
```

> As mentioned for DaG we use the results of this study for domain heuristic label functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As with DaG edges, we use the results from this study to provide what we term as domain heuristic label functions.
```

> Majority of supervised machine learning efforts use the Biocreative V  dataset [@tag:biocreative_v].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Recent work with supervised machine learning methods has often focused on compounds that induce a disease: an important question for toxicology and the subject of the BioCreative V dataset [@tag:biocreative_v].
```

Reviewer: You should add a few references to the first part of the sentence since you assert that this is a major focus of supervised work in this area.

> This dataset focused on extracting sentences indicating the Compound-induces-Disease relationship.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Incorporating this edge into Hetionet would be an interesting idea, but it is tangential to this work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We don't consider environmental toxicants in our work, as our source databases for distant supervision, as well as our primary use cases, are primarily centered around FDA-approved therapies.
```

#### Compound Binds Gene

> Majority of effort for Compound-binds-Gene extraction focuses on the Biocreative task VI track 5 shared task [@raw:biocreative/chemprot].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The BioCreative VI track 5 task focused on classifying compound-protein interactions and has led to a great deal of work on the topic [@raw:biocreative/chemprot].
The equivalent edge in our networks is Compound-binds-Gene (CbG).
```

> This shared task challenged contestants to classify compound-protein (genes for our context) interactions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Curators manually annotated 2,432 PubMed abstracts for five different compound protein interactions (agonist, antagonist, inhibitor, activator and substrate/product production). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Curators manually annotated 2,432 PubMed abstracts for five different compound protein interactions (agonist, antagonist, inhibitor, activator and substrate/product production) as part of the BioCreative task. 
```

> For this task performance was reported in terms of F1 score and the best team achieved a score of 64.10% [@raw:biocreative/chemprot].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The best performers on this task achieved an F1 score of 64.10% [@raw:biocreative/chemprot].
```
I don't usually see this represented as a percent, but I guess it could be since precision and recall both can be.

> This competition provided a publicly available dataset that copious amount of supervised machine learning methods use [@tag:limtox; @tag:lptk; @tag:cbg_ensemble_dl; @tag:biobert; @tag:cbg_ensemble_dl; @tag:cbg_feat_engineering; @tag:cbg_transfer_learning; @tag:cbg_neural_attention; @tag:recursive_nn].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Numerous additional groups have now used the publicly available dataset that resulted from this competition, and it is often used to train supervised machine learning methods [@tag:limtox; @tag:lptk; @tag:cbg_ensemble_dl; @tag:biobert; @tag:cbg_ensemble_dl; @tag:cbg_feat_engineering; @tag:cbg_transfer_learning; @tag:cbg_neural_attention; @tag:recursive_nn].
```

> One study used a semi-supervised approach to extract compound-gene interactions [@tag:semi_supervised_vae]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Semi-supervised approaches have also been used to extract compound-gene interactions [@tag:semi_supervised_vae].
```

> Using already annotated datasets the authors used a variational auto encoder consisting of a bidirectional long short term memory network for encoding and decoding and a convolutional neural network for classification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Their method depends on available annotated datasets, which creates a bottleneck for extracting less studied relationships.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each of these approaches depend on well-annotated training datasets, which creates a bottleneck.
```

>   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Concerning unsupervised methods, one study used hand crafted rules for CbG extraction [@tag:pharmpresso].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to supervised machine learning methods, hand crafted rules [@tag:pharmpresso] and bi-clustering of dependency trees  [@tag:global_network] have also been used.
We use the results from the bi-clustering study to provide a subset of the CbG label functions in this work.
```

> Another study used a bi-clustering approach on dependency trees  to identify key sentences for CbG extraction [@tag:global_network].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> We used results from the latter study as label functions for CbG extraction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

#### Gene-Gene Interactions

> Like Disease-associates-Gene, a plethora of work the for Gene-interacts-Gene (GiG), aka protein-protein interactions, relationship  consisted of co-occurrence approaches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Akin to the DaG edge type, many efforts to extract Gene-interacts-Gene (GiG) relationships use co-occurrence approaches.
This edge type is more frequently referred to as a protein-protein interaction.
```

> One study used a Z-score approach to find significant protein pairs from Pubmed abstracts [@tag:string].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Even approaches as simple as calculating Z-scores from PubMed abstract co-occurrences can be informative [@tag:string], and there are numerous studies using co-occurrences [@tag:ppinterfinder; @tag:hpiminer; @protein_protein_co_network; @tag:full_text_co_abstracts].
```

> A later approach builds off of this mentioned method by using distant supervision and a logistic model to improve performance [@tag:cocoscore].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, more sophisticated strategies such as distant supervision appear to improve performance [@tag:cocoscore].
```

> Following the above methods other, studies used co-occurrence approaches for CbG Extraction [@tag:ppinterfinder; @tag:hpiminer; @protein_protein_co_network; @tag:full_text_co_abstracts].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Similar to the above relationships, one study used a bi-clustering approach on dependency trees for GiG extraction. [tag:global_network].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As with the other edge types we consider, the bi-clustering approach over dependency trees has also been applied to this edge type [tag:global_network].
```

> We use the results of this study for our domain heuristic label functions for GiG extraction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As with the other cases, this manuscript provides a set of label functions for our work.
```

> These methods benefit from not needing annotated data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These methods benefit from not needing annotated data and tend to have good recall for this edge type.
```
At less precision? Any quantitative numbers here? How does it compare to the supervised parts below?

> Plus, these methods provide great recall performance in terms of extraction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Majority of supervised machine learning methods used publicly available datasets [@tag:aimed; @tag:bioinfer; @raw:LLL; @tag:hprd50; @raw:IEPA] as a gold standard.  

Reviewer: The grammar of this sentence needs a fix - when you do that, can you also note if there are any particular datasets that are most commonly used? Is it just that each team uses a different one, or is there one or two that dominates?

> Significant amount of effort used support vector machines to detect protein-protein interactions [@tag:ppi_graph_kernels; @tag:protein_docking].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Support vector machines were a common approach to extract GiG edges [@tag:ppi_graph_kernels; @tag:protein_docking].
```

> As deep learning became popular other studies used such algorithms [@tag:ppi_bilstm; @tag:ppi_deep_conv; @tag:mcdepcnn].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, with the growing popularity of deep learning numerous deep neural network architectures have been applied [@tag:ppi_bilstm; @tag:ppi_deep_conv; @tag:mcdepcnn; @tag:semi_supervised_vae].
```

> As mentioned in the Compound-binds-Gene section one study used a semi-supervised approach for GiG extraction [@tag:semi_supervised_vae].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> This method is relies on the quality of annotated datasets for performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> This dependence creates a bottleneck for extracting less studied relationships.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Similar to our discriminative model one study used a convolutional neural network to detect protein-protein interactions [@tag:mcdepcnn].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Lastly, one study used a distant supervision approach for GiG extraction [@tag:deep_dive].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Distant supervision has also been used in this domain [@tag:deep_dive], and in fact this effort was one of the motivating rationales for our work.
```

> Their work uses probabilistic inference and factor graphs to generate predictions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Success from this study served as rationale for our work, where we train a generative model to probabilistically annotate sentence then use a discriminative model for classification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: There are a lot of blank lines here - is this intended?

Talk about problem, goal, and significance of paper

> ## Recent Work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Related Work
```

> Relationship extraction is the process of detecting and classifying semantic relationships from a set of text.

Reviewer 2: "set of text" sounds a bit odd, maybe "corpus of texts" or "collection of text" or just "text".

This process of can be broken down into three categories: (1) use of natural langue processing techniques such as manual crafted rules, dictionary lookups or text patterns to extract relationships from literature, (2) unsupervised machine learning via co-occurence scores or clustering approaches, and (3) supervised or semi-supervised machine learning using annotated datasets for classification of documents or sentences.

> We discuss previous work done for each edge type (relationship) used in this project.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We discuss previous work done for each type of edge (relationship) studied in this project.
```

Or just introduce edge = relationship at a later point when talking about networks. Issue currently is that it makes it seem like "edge type" is synomous with "relationship", rather than with "relationship type"

### Disease-Gene Associations 

> Regarding rule based approaches, Liu et al., used a dictionary lookup approach to extract multiple edges involving diseases, genes, toxins, etc. from literature [@tag:polysearch]. 

Reviewer 2: No comma after liu et al

Recently Bhasuran et al., created used an ensemble approach that consisted of using multiple support vector machines to identify associations [@tag:ensemble_svm].
Lee et al., build off of the BERT [@tag:bert] system to build a deep learning classifier for association detection [@tag:biobert].

### Compound Treats Disease
For rule based extraction, Xu et al., created a pattern learning approach that used MEDLINE abstracts to identify compound disease treatments [@tag:ctd_medline]
For unsupervised approaches, Frijters et al., used a co-occurence approach to find novel disease targets fro drugs [@tag:copub_discovery].
Rastegar-Mojarad et al., used an inference model, Swanson's ABC model, to make drug repurposing predictions [@tag:abc_drugs].
Percha et al., used a bi-clustering approach on dependency trees generated from MEDLINE abstracts to extract compound disease treatments [@tag:global_network].
Majority of work for supervised machine learning is centered around the biocreative shared task [@doi:10.1093/database/baw032 (Biocreative V)].
This task was focused on predicting compound inducing disease relationship, which is tangential towards this project.

### Compound Binds Gene

> Majority of work for this edge type revolves around biocreative task VI track 5 [@raw:biocreative/chemprot].

Reviewer 2: can you explain the "biocreative task VI track 5" a bit more

Yau Lung et al., constructed their own features, semantic patterns and dependency kernels, to train machine learning classifiers for compound protein interactions [@tag:cbg_feat_engineering].  
With the success of deep learning there have been numerous amount of deep learning models to tackle this task.
Lim et al., used a recursive neural network to classify compound protein interactions [@tag:recursive_nn].
Peng et al., used an ensemble approach that combines support vector machines with convolutional neural networks and recurrent neural networks [@tag:cbg_ensemble_dl].
Lee et al., used a deep learning classifier that builds off of the BERT system for this task [@tag:biobert].
Corbett et al., used a transfer learning with specialized word embedding vectors approach to classify compound protein interactions [@tag:cbg_transfer_learning].
Liu et al., used a neural attention model to accomplish this classification task [@tag:cbg_neural_attention].
Zhange et al., used a semi-supervised approach that combines the CHEMPROT dataset with full MEDLINE text to perform extraction [@tag:semi_supervised_vae].

> Lastly, Percha et al., used a bi-clustering approach on dependency trees generated from MEDLINE abstracts to identify key sentences for compound protein interactions [tag:global network].

Reviewer 2: Missing @ before tag

Yadav et al., used a bidrectional lstm network to classify protein protein interactions [@tag:ppi_bilstm].
Choi at al., used the AiMed dataset to train a deep convolutional neural network for protein protein extraction [@tag:ppi_deep_conv].
Using the BioInfer[@tag:bioinfer] dataset, Zhang et al. took a semi-supervised approach to improve protein-protein interaction detection [@tag:semi_supervised_vae].
Peng et al., used AiMed and Bioinfer datasets to train a convolutional neural network for detecting protein protein interactions [@tag:mcdepcnn].
Mallory et al., took a different approach and used distant supervision on full-text PLOS articles to extract protein protein interactions [@tag:deep_dive].
Badal et al., retrieved abstracts related to protein protein interactions and trained a support vector machine classifier to extract protein docking information [@tag:protein_docking].
Regarding unsupervised methods, Subramani et al., created an online protein protein visualization tool that used a co-occurence text mining approach [@tag:ppinterfinder] to extract information from Pubmed [@tag:hpiminer].

> Percha et al., used a bi-clustering approach on dependency trees generated from MEDLINE abstracts to identify key sentences for protein protein interactions [tag:global network].

Reviewer 2: Missing @

The results of this study were incorporated into Hetionet v1, so this served as one of our distant supervision label functions.
Another approach built off of the above work by incorporating a supervised classifier, trained via distant supervision, into a scoring scheme [@tag:cocoscore].
Each sentence containing a disease and gene mention is scored using a logistic regression model and combined using the same co-occurrence approach used in Pletscher-Frankild et al. [@tag:diseases].
We compared our results to this to measure how well our overall approach performs relative to other methods.
Besides the mentioned three studies, researchers have used co-occurrences for extraction alone [@tag:lgscore; @tag:polysearch; @tag:full_text_co_abstracts] or in combination with other features to recover DaG relationships [@tag:dg_text_pubmed].
One recent effort relied on a bi-clustering approach to detect DaG-relevant sentences from Pubmed abstracts [@tag:global_network] with clustering of dependency paths grouping similar sentences together.
The results of this work supply our domain heuristic label functions.

> These approaches do not rely on a well-annotated training performance and tend to provide excellent recall, though the precision is often worse than with supervised methods [@doi:10.1038/nrg1768; 10.1016/j.ymeth.2015.01.015].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These approaches do not rely on a well-annotated training performance and tend to provide excellent recall, though the precision is often worse than with supervised methods [@doi:10.1038/nrg1768; @doi:10.1016/j.ymeth.2015.01.015].
```

In this section, we discuss selected efforts for each type of edge that we include in this project.

#### Disease-Gene Associations 

Efforts to extract Disease-associates-Gene (DaG) relationships have often used manually crafted rules or unsupervised methods.
One study used hand crafted rules based on a sentence's grammatical structure, represented as dependency trees, to extract DaG relationships [@tag:pkde4j].
Some of these rules inspired certain DaG text pattern label functions in our work.
Another study used co-occurrence frequencies within abstracts and sentences to score the likelihood of association between disease and gene pairs [@tag:diseases].
The results of this study were incorporated into Hetionet v1, so this served as one of our distant supervision label functions.

> Another approach built off of the above work by incorporating a supervised classifier, trained via distant supervision, into their scoring scheme [@tag:cocoscore].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Another approach built off of the above work by incorporating a supervised classifier, trained via distant supervision, into a scoring scheme [@tag:cocoscore].
```

> Each sentence containing a disease and gene mention is scored using a logistic regression model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each sentence containing a disease and gene mention is scored using a logistic regression model and combined using the same co-occurrence approach used in [@tag:diseases].
```
This should be `first author's last name et al. [@tag:diseases].` Otherwise it'll just show up as a number in the document.

> These scores are combined using the same co-occurrence approach used in [@tag:diseases].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We compared our results to this to measure how well our overall approach performs relative to other methods.

> Besides the mentioned three studies, other work have used co-occurrence for extraction [@tag:lgscore; @tag:polysearch; @tag:full_text_co_abstracts] or in combination with other features to mine the DaG relationships [@tag:dg_text_pubmed].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Besides the mentioned three studies, researchers have used co-occurrences for extraction alone [@tag:lgscore; @tag:polysearch; @tag:full_text_co_abstracts] or in combination with other features to recover DaG relationships [@tag:dg_text_pubmed].
```

> Along with co-occurrence, one study used a bi-clustering approach to detect DaG relevant sentences from Pubmed abstracts [@tag:global_network].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One recent effort relied on a bi-clustering approach to detect DaG-relevant sentences from Pubmed abstracts [@tag:global_network] with clustering of dependency paths grouping similar sentences together.
```

> This clustering approach used dependency paths to group similar sentences together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> We used the results of this work for our domain heuristic label functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The results of this work supply our domain heuristic label functions.
```

> The benefit of using the above approaches is inessential need for annotated data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These approaches do not rely on a well-annotated training performance and tend to provide excellent recall, though the precision is often worse than with supervised methods.
```
this assertion needs a reference and/or a set of references if you're synthesizing across what you've read in multiple papers.

> These methods provide great recall performance in terms of extraction, but can suffer in precision performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Hand-crafted high-quality datasets [@tag:befree; @tag:eu_adr; @tag:comagc; @tag:craft] often serve as a gold standard for training, tuning, and testing supervised machine learning methods in this setting.
Support vector machines have been repeatedly used to detect DaG relationships [@tag:befree; @tag:dtminer; @tag:ensemble_svm].

> This model performs well in large feature spaces, but are slow to train as the number of data points becomes substantially large.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These models perform well in large feature spaces, but are slow to train as the number of data points becomes large.
```

Recently, some studies have used deep neural network models.

> Oneused a pre-trained recurrent neural network [@tag:biobert], and another used distant supervision [@tag:deep_dive_dag].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One used a pre-trained recurrent neural network [@tag:biobert], and another used distant supervision [@tag:deep_dive_dag].
```

Semi-supervised approaches have also been used to extract compound-gene interactions [@tag:semi_supervised_vae].
Each of these approaches depend on well-annotated training datasets, which creates a bottleneck.
In addition to supervised machine learning methods, hand crafted rules [@tag:pharmpresso] and bi-clustering of dependency trees  [@tag:global_network] have also been used.
We use the results from the bi-clustering study to provide a subset of the CbG label functions in this work.

#### Gene-Gene Interactions

Akin to the DaG edge type, many efforts to extract Gene-interacts-Gene (GiG) relationships use co-occurrence approaches.
This edge type is more frequently referred to as a protein-protein interaction.
Even approaches as simple as calculating Z-scores from PubMed abstract co-occurrences can be informative [@tag:string], and there are numerous studies using co-occurrences [@tag:ppinterfinder; @tag:hpiminer; @tag:protein_protein_co_network; @tag:full_text_co_abstracts].
However, more sophisticated strategies such as distant supervision appear to improve performance [@tag:cocoscore].

> As with the other edge types we consider, the bi-clustering approach over dependency trees has also been applied to this edge type [tag:global_network].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As with the other edge types we consider, the bi-clustering approach over dependency trees has also been applied to this edge type [@tag:global_network].
```
